# SEMI-AUTOMATIC GEAR SHIFTING MECHANISM IN TWO-WHEELERS
Motorcycles are widely used around the world particularly in INDIA. The gear shifting system of the motor-cycle is conventionally manual. This report covers development of an indigenous gear shifting /changing system for the standard motorcycle. By this system the manual mechanical gear- shifting will remain unchanged because an additional electro-mechanical system is placed on the top of the lever to shift the gear and automatically control the clutch. So the system has both the option manual as well as automatic. The system uses low cost microcontrollers to make the accurate decision for shifting the gear up and down by observing the speed. The complete hardware and software has been tested and the functioning of the Semi-Automatic gear shifting system is verified. System is flexible and can be used with any motorcycle ranging from 50 to 200 cc. Motorcycle is also varies in two large section gear transmission & CVT transmission. The recently conducted survey shows that CVT are in demand compared to the gear featured bikes. CVT’s do not have the concept of meshing of gears which enhances a smooth ride, but the fuel efficiency is comparatively lesser when compared to the gear featured vehicles. Automation of gears transmission can be achieved by embedded system. Embedded system is a special purpose computer system. Embedded system is preferable because it can reduce the number of electrical components and probability of failure is minimum. Either a microprocessor or a microcontroller is used in all the embedded systems. The encoding is done by using suitable software for writing assembly level language in microcontroller which is stored in ROM of microcontroller. Embedded ‘C’ language is used to encode microcontroller or microprocessor counts the revolutions per minute. According to the RPM counted by sensor the embedded system will decide which gear is preferred for the smooth drive of vehicle and according to the output calculated by system the gear are changed. It can also eliminates the shortcoming such as ‘Knocking’ and subsequently increases engine life span, Hence by Automating the gear transmission in a gear featured bike, ease in driving and also to maintain the efficiency of the bike can be achieved.
